The Pakistan Airlines tragedy.
The plane crash in the Bay of Bengal--
Hello, Dum Dum Airport?
I am Byomkesh Bakshi.
Can I speak to Mrigen Dutta?
Sure, I'll hold.
Hello, Mrigen.
Byomkesh here.
I'm fine. How are you?
The Pakistan Airlines tragedy from
a few days ago?
Yes, the one that crashed into the sea.
I wanted to know the details
about the victims.
So all the officers were Muslim?
The pilot?
English.
The navigator?
Pakistani.
Mrigen, can I get a complete list
of the victims?
Yes, I'll pick it up tomorrow.
Very well.
Thank you very much.
Goodbye.
What's going on?
Huh?
What?
What's the matter?
-What?
-There you have it!
He's asking me!
-Ajit.
-What?
-We need a disguise.
-Huh?
Dry fruits!
Peanuts!
Raisins!
Cashew nuts!
Dry fruits--
Do you want some dry fruits, son?
It's useless to spy on me, Ajit.
Tell your friend...
If I killed Henna,
then fine.
You won't be able to do anything
against me.
You didn't learn anything
fro me in all these years.
-How did he know it's you?
-He's very cunning.
Moreover, I'm neither a politician
nor an actor. I'm a writer.
-Why do you always--
-Don't lie.
-What do you mean?
-When you publish this case as a story...
and you skip out how bad you messed up,
just see what I do to you!
Hey--
Uff!
Got you--
Hey Chingri!
Hey!
Hey, hang on!
-No! No!
-Wait up!
-No!
-Hey!
The brothers seem
to be friends now, huh?
Such is youth.
-Please come, Byomkesh.
-Hello, Nengti.
-Why the urgent call?
-Aunty has called for you.
Come.
Please sit down.
You too.
No, I haven't finished praying yet.
Chameli, please don't get
unnecessarily excited.
Santosh has hired me to protect
the interests of this family.
If you know anything about Henna's death,
please tell me everything clearly.
Why has the police sent spies
after my sons?
My sons are completely innocent.
The police are investigating to prove
that your sons are innocent.
When I'm saying they're innocent,
why aren't the police believing me?
You're their mother, Chameli.
It's natural for you to think
that your sons are innocent but...
everyone is an equal suspect
for the police.
Byomkesh.
I know how Henna died.
That day...
I left the room
when Chingri went to the washroom.
Why are you after my sons?
You've already brainwashed my husband.
You won't spare my sons either, huh?
You better leave this house
this very day.
What's the matter?
Can't you hear what I'm saying?
Can't you hear me?
Why didn't you tell me before?
Would anyone believe me if I did?
Chameli, when you went
to the terrace that day...
did you see Uday near the stairs
or in the hall or anywhere at all?
Uday?
No, I didn't.
Did you see anyone else
when you were in the hall?
Ravi Verma.
I saw Uday.
Anyone else?
Give me a smoke.
Yes, Uday.
Did you see anyone else?
-I didn't notice.
-Ch--
Chameli, you're inviting more trouble
for your sons by trying to protect them.
I promise you.
If your sons really are innocent...
it's my responsibility to protect them.
Goodbye.
"This world is a giant slaughterhouse.
With every blink of the eye,
a million creatures shut their eyes forever.
Who is the game master?
The earth's soil is tainted with murder."
Raghupati from Tagore's "Bisarjan"?
My goodness!
What are you up to?
You're unwell.
Trying to get well.
Hey, don't--
Look at you!
Careful, Byomkesh.
Byomkesh! Watch your step!
Be careful, watch your step.
In my heart, in my heart
I am looking for the one in my heart
Because of him
Uff!
My sky is full of stars at night
Flowers bloom in the morn
In the forest
I am looking for the one in my heart
In my heart, in my heart
Careful, careful!
Easy there.
-Are you okay?
-Yes.
What did you see?
Nothing special.
The real spectacle is over there.
What's this?
You can enter the house
from here as well?
So what do you figure?
Just that someone can enter secretly,
go up the scaffolding...
Yes! Someone can easily go to the terrace
with this ladder.
Bravo!
-Come on.
-Hmm.
Here.
A letter for you.
What happened at the Samaddars'?
Everyone is lying.
Complete bluff.
I don't get why you even care.
I can't rest till I know the truth.
What's this about?
A letter from the Government of Odisha.
Asking me to investigate a case
of missing files from their office.
Apparently, if I don't take it up
the state will be in grave danger.
They've sent some advance.
Thank God!
It's been so long
since we went on a trip.
Let's all go somewhere.
The Rath festival is coming up.
Let us all go to Puri and enjoy it.
Selling one's art is just as important
as enjoyment, Satya.
Huh. Since when do you sell your art?
Why?
Art doesn't just mean music, acting
and sculpting, right?
Seeking the truth is an art too.
And our family runs on that money.
I have to go out at night.
For what?
In search of the Sun in the night sky.
Has your husband lost it?
Huh?
Going in search of the Sun
in the night sky?
What's another word for the sun?
Think.
INDOPAK HOTEL
-Here it is, sir.
-Hmm.
We found a bag
next to Henna's mat on the terrace.
And it had these keys.
Huh?
What?
What's all this?
What's wrong?
What's the significance of seven?
Hey, listen!
-AK Ray?
-What happened to you?
You have the keys
from Henna's bag, right?
-Yes.
-Give it to me! It's very important.
-I think we'll solve this case tonight.
-Here you go.
-Let's go, Ajit.
-Yes.
-Can I come along?
-What?
The police has closed the case.
Not as a police officer, my friend,
as a friend.
-Let's go.
-Let's.
Sir.
Please come.
I've heard that alcohol is sold illegally
at your hotel, Mr. Manager.
Not at all.
Oh really?
Well, that can be cleared up
at the police station.
Come to the police station with us.
There's a warrant in your name.
Oh, come on, sir!
Wouldn't it be better
if we settled the matter inside, sir?
-Sure?
-Yes.
Wait here.
I'll have a word with him inside.
Don't move.
-Come on.
-This way, sir.
RUBAIYAT OF OMAR KHAYYAM
Yes.
-Sit down, gentleman. Please sit.
-Sit down, Ajit.
If you don't have a drink
at this poor man's house...
it'll bring me back luck, sir.
-Not today.
-Why not?
Oh, sir!
I won't find a place even in Hell
if I can't quench a guest's thirst.
Don't worry, the God of Death
has bought more land to add to Hell!
-Really? Where?
-In this very country.
-Tell me something.
-Yes.
Who stays in room number seven?
Room seven... room seven--
Room number seven has been rented
by a Pakistani man.
A very amusing man!
He rents it from time to time
but stays only for three or four days.
That too just for half an hour.
-Is he accompanied by anyone?
-Hmm.
An angel!
What's this man's name?
Name? His name...
Can't remember who you rented it to?
His name was--
Ah! The register!
It's in the register.
-Okay, wait, you sit.
-Sit down, sit down.
This, right?
-There, that one.
-This one?
Room number seven...
Dhaka, Pakistan, Omor Siraji.
-Okay?
-Omor Siraji?
Omor Siraji or that angel...
has anyone else come with them?
Or has anyone ever come
in their absence?
I don't know that, sir, but...
Another man had come
about 10 or 12 days ago.
What's going on?
I'm the Officer in Charge here.
I've never seen you before.
-I've just been posted here.
-Oh.
I know some secrets
about this hotel of yours.
Like?
Illegal activities are carried out
in room number seven.
Give me the keys to the room.
I'll search it.
Give it to me.
What's the matter?
Do you have a warrant?
Show me.
I could take you to the police station
right now.
I'm sure you know that.
I run a hotel in the city, sir.
I know a little bit of the law too.
Get a warrant first.
Then you can search.
I'm not going anywhere
neither is room number seven.
Go.
Such things...
Such things often happens at hotels, sir.
I'm used to it.
If you could give a physical description...
He was in a costume.
-In a costume?
-Yes.
-What costume?
-Why do you care?
Dressed as a circus lion!
Satisfied?
-Oh?
-Let's go.
-Okay.
-Come, AK Ray.
Let's go.
-Visit again, sir.
-Goodbye.
-Goodbye!
-Please come again.
-Satyabati!
-Coming!
What is it, Ajit?
You've heard of Omar Khayyam
but have you heard of Omar Siraji?
-Omor Siraji?
-Hmm.
Who's that?
The navigator who died in the
Pakistan Airlines tragedy was Omor Siraji.
Please don't disturb me tonight.
Have dinner.
-I won't eat.
-Huh?
Fine.
-Come to eat, Ajit.
-Can I--
His words
Rise up suddenly
Amidst a forgotten melody
In the tunes of my song
His words...
Sways me in melancholy
In melancholy...
YOURS,
SANTOSH
He hides in my work
to distract me
Because he is mine forever
He gives my heart wings
Could you unearth the truth?
How can the truth evade me
with you by my side?
Who's the mystery man?
In my heart, in my heart
I am looking for the one in my heart
Hello, Santosh.
I need to talk to you.
Yes, tell me.
Let me start by apologising...
for continuing the investigation
despite all your efforts.
I'm very sorry about that.
-What are you implying?
-You don't get it?
Very well.
I'll explain.
First, you hired goons to injure me
so that I stop my investigation.
When that failed, you requested
the Odisha government...
to call me for some investigation.
Used money as bait.
But Byomkesh Bakshi never leaves
an investigation incomplete, Santosh.
Why are you here?
To tell you who murdered Henna Mullick.
Who?
You.
Hmmph!
-Can you prove it?
-No.
But I can prove that you had motive
to murder her.
I will file a defamation case against you.
You won't be able to.
You don't have the guts.
You used your influence
to close the police investigation
but everyone needs to know the truth.
What do you mean?
What nonsense is this?
What truth?
About where your lifeline
is hidden right now.
That which you didn't find
in Henna's room.
The reason why you set fire
to the documents in her room.
Your precious lifeline is now...
with me.
What do you want?
How much money?
You're a traitor to your country, Santosh.
You must be punished for it.
Do you know who you're accusing?
I never accuse anyone
without proper evidence, Santosh.
Henna Mullick's mother, Mina,
and you were lovers.
You would regularly go to Dhaka
during the Partition.
You knew...
that Mina was a Pakistani spy .
Despite it, you used to convey
information of your party to Mina.
You shared all the secret tricks
and strategies with her.
There has been rioting
because of that.
Lakhs of people have lost their lives.
After Mina's death...
that letter reached her daughter,
Henna Mullick.
Henna Mullick and Omor Siraji decided
to blackmail you.
And as per the plan,
Henna kept blackmailing you.
One lakh rupees.
Give me the letters.
You can't shut up a truth seeker
with money, Santosh.
Because leaders like you
and your disgusting, selfish wants...
the curse of the partition has befallen us.
And millions innocent people of India
and Pakistan have had to pay for it.
They will in future too.
Their curses won't be in vain, Santosh.
From tomorrow, your letters will be
published one by one in the newspapers.
Be ready.
We'd have lost much more
if it wasn't for the Partition. Believe--
No, I don't believe you!
I don't believe you!
This is something you made up.
A distorted history you'll tell
the future generations...
To create a rift between people,
to spread communal poison...
year after year, decade after decade!
And millions more will die
because of this, Santosh.
Everyone needs to know the truth
about people like you.
Will you please give me one day?
Very well.
Your letters won't be published
in tomorrow's newspaper.
But there's no point
sending goons to kill me, Santosh.
Even if I get killed, you'll never find
those letters.
Let's go, Ajit.
"There's nothing either good or bad...
but thinking makes it so."
"Famous politician and businessman
Santosh Samaddar commits suicide."
What a tragedy!
There's an English proverb...
A sailor has a girl in every port.
It was the same with Santosh.
I believe that he had a lover
in every city.
Sukumari in Kolkata,
Mina in Dhaka.
I believe Mina's husband,
Kamal Mullick, was a simple man.
And we've seen Mina's photo.
She was beautiful just like Henna.
On top of that, she socialised
with the big shots of society.
Then came the Partition.
Santosh was one of the
top politicians then.
He was serving as the national messenger
between India and Pakistan.
Naturally, he had to frequent Dhaka.
That's where he met Mina
and fell in love.
She took the opportunity to lay hands on
our country's secret documents.
Santosh was so madly in love
that he disclosed vital information...
in his letters to Mina.
Despite knowing
that Mina is a Pakistani spy.
BELOVED MINA "MATAHARI"
SANTOSH SAMADDAR
I found this priceless piece of evidence
while searching that hotel room.
Santosh tried looking for the letters
but he had no way.
Henna would be in her room all day.
When she went to the terrace to pray,
she locked her room.
Hmm...
Sit.
Santosh used to give some money
to Henna every week.
Hmm.
Hmm?
Henna used to hand it over
to Omor Siraji.
Henna's friend, Omor Siraji,
worked for the Airlines.
He came to meet Henna every 10 or 12 days.
Omor Siraji played the mouth organ
when he arrived...
And Henna used to go
to the hotel with him.
The hotel where Omor Siraji
had rented room number seven.
INDOPAK
HOTEL
They had hidden all their secret documents
in that room.
Henna used to give him the money
she got from Santosh.
Omor used to take it
and go straight to Pakistan.
That Henna Mullick was not the
orphaned daughter of Santosh's friend ...
and that she and Omor Siraji were trying
to blackmail Santosh...
Ravi Verma was the first to suspect this.
INDOPAK
HOTEL
Hello?
Hello, Operator?
Uff! Hello?
What's wrong with this?
Hello?
He followed Henna
to room number seven.
But he could not unlock it.
Hence, he tried different methods.
First, he tried to unlock it with a key.
Didn't work.
Tried threatening the manager
dressed as a police officer.
That didn't work either.
-What is it?
-I am the Officer in Charge here.
I've never seen you before.
-I've just been posted here.
-Oh.
Then he bought a lock that like
that of room number seven...
and tried to unlock it with its key.
Still failed.
Byomkesh, it's possible...
Maybe Santosh told Ravi Verma...
to extract those documents
from that hotel room?
Santosh wouldn't do it on the sly.
He'd give a hefty bribe
to the hotel manager.
So, Santosh's mental agony
dragged on for months.
Then one day, Santosh read in the papers...
that Omor Siraji has died
in the airplane tragedy.
But Henna didn't know that yet.
Santosh found a way out.
He realised that Omor Siraji is dead...
and he'll be at peace
if he could get rid of Henna.
Henna went to the terrace
every day to pray.
The house was being repaired.
There was scaffolding
from the ground to the terrace.
I believe that he had
planned it from before.
The only obstacle in his path
was Omor Siraji.
He planned his alibi with Sukumari
on Saturday evening,
You see...
I'll murder her in such a way...
that her death looks like an accident.
You will be my alibi.
The police might interrogate you
in different ways.
You won't get scared, will you?
I am relying on you heavily.
I love you, sir.
Hmm.
(song playing)
Santosh entered through the back door,
went up the scaffolding...
and directly reached the terrace.
(song playing)
Santosh unlatched the terrace door.
The door remains open.
So if anyone suspects
that Henna had been murdered...
they won't be able to guess
which way the murderer entered from...
By climbing up the scaffolding
or from inside the house.
Santosh finished the job
and secretly went back to Sukumari.
No one at home had any idea.
(song playing)
I'm sure Sukumari loved Santosh.
That's why, she didn't mind
getting involved even in a murder.
Sukumari is the probably only person
who's sad about Santosh's death.
(song playing)
Hmm.
After that, Santosh tried to destroy
all the documents in Henna's room, right?
Yes.
Destroyed everything.
-Santosh planned it pretty well.
-Hmm.
He did plan it well but he didn't realise
that I would investigate the case.
Byomkesh.
Why did Santosh appoint you
to protect his family honour?
He could have dismissed you
right from the beginning.
First of all, Nengti had already called me
by that time.
If he tried to get rid of me then,
everyone would suspect him.
Secondly, people like him are very rich.
They think they can buy off everyone.
He thought if he let me continue
without getting on my wrong side...
then maybe I would find
all those secret documents...
and then he would bribe me
to give them to him.
But when he realised that I'm hell bent
on catching Henna Mullick's murderer...
he tried to get rid of me.
When did you suspect him?
After the fire in Henna Mullick's room.
What could he burn?
Something you can't get easily.
What could it be?
Some document...
some letter which can be used
to blackmail someone.
But blackmail who?
Uday and Jugal can be counted out.
The only ones left are
Santosh Samaddar and Ravi Verma.
Ravi Verma doesn't have any money.
How much could someone get
by blackmailing him?
On the other hand,
Santosh Samaddar is a rich man...
He frequents East Bengal...
He has given shelter to Henna Mullick
in his own house...
He used his influence
to close the police investigation...
Arranged to have me sent to Odisha...
So, he was the most suitable candidate.
Hmm.
What will you do with the letters?
What?
You burnt them all?
Won't you tell anyone else
that he's the murderer?
Santosh has repented for his deeds, Satya.
There's no point endangering his family
by defaming him.
Let the hidden mountain stay hidden.
-Byomkesh.
-Uff!
-Nengti.
-What are you burning?
Uncle died.
And you still couldn't figure out
who killed Henna.
Some truth seeker!
You're right.
These days, I doubt myself too.
So, do you know
who murdered Henna, Nengti?
Hmm.
I've known from the beginning.
Who?
Uncle.
How do you know?
-I saw it myself.
-There you go!
I went to the back of the house
to smoke.
I clearly saw it.
Wow!
Brilliant!
-Why didn't you tell me?
-Why should I?
Uncle provides for me.
I told you because he's no more.
Moreover, you'd get paid
if you could solve it.
Why should I help you for free?
Give me a smoke.
What a brat!
Uff!